I do want to thank you first judge aqua
Lenin for giving all of us the chance to
reclaim our voices our voices were taken
from us for so long and I am grateful
beyond what I can express that you have
given us the chance to restore them then
there are two major purposes in our
criminal justice system Your Honor the
pursuit of justice and the protection of
the innocent neither these purposes can
be met if anything less than the maximum
available sentence under the plea
agreement is imposed upon Larry for his
name's not because the federal sentence
he will already serve is lacking but
because the sentence rendered today will
send a message across this country a
message to every victim and a message to
every perpetrator I realize you have
many factors to consider when you
fashion your sentence but I submit to
you that the preeminent question in this
case as you reach a decision about how
best to satisfy the dual aims of this
Court is the same question that I asked
to judge Neff to consider how much is a
little girl worth how much is a young
woman worth Larry is a hardened and
determined sexual predator I know this
firsthand at age 15 when I suffered from
chronic back pain Larry sexually
assaulted me repeatedly under the guise
of medical treatment for nearly a year
he did this with my own mother in the
room carefully and perfectly obstructing
her view so that she would not know what
he was doing his ability to gain my
trust and the trust of my parents his
grooming and carefully calculated brazen
sexual assault was the result of
deliberate premeditated intentional and
methodological patterns of abuse
patterns that were rehearsed long before
I walked through Larry's exam room door
and which continued to be perpetrated I
believe on a daily basis for 16 more
years until I filed the police report
Larry is the most dangerous type of
abuser one who is capable of
manipulating his victims through coldly
calculated grooming methodologies
presenting the most wholesome and caring
external persona as a deliberate means
to ensure
steady stream of young children to
assault and while Larry is unlikely to
live past his federal sentence he is not
the only predator out there and this
sentence will send a message about how
seriously abuse will be taken so I ask
how much is a little girl worth how much
priority should be placed on
communicating that the fullest weight of
the law will be used to protect another
innocent child from the soul-shattering
devastation that sexual assault brings I
submit to you that these children are
worth everything worth every protection
the law can offer worth the maximum
sentence the second aim of this court
and our criminal justice system is to
pursue justice for the victims that have
already been harmed and this aim too can
only be realized by imposing the maximum
sentence under the plea agreement and in
reaching this decision too we also must
answer the question how much was the
little girl worth how much were these
young women worth this time however the
little girls in question are not
potential victims they are real women
and children real women and little girls
who have names and faces and souls real
women and children whose abuse and
suffering was enjoyed for sexual
fulfillment by the defendant I believe
sometimes your honored that when we are
embroiled in a legal dispute the words
of our legal system designed to
categorize and classify and obstruct can
inadvertently sterilize the harsh
realities of what has taken place they
can serve as a shield against the horror
of what we are really discussing and
this must not ever happen because if the
truth about what Larry has done must be
realized to its fullest depth if justice
is to ever be served and sown for a
moment your honor
I like every woman who has come before
you want to take a moment to drop that
shield
Larry meticulously groomed me for the
purpose of exploiting me for his sexual
game he penetrated me he groped me he
fondled me
and then he whispered questions about
how it felt he engaged in the degrading
and humiliating sex acts without my
consent or permission and Larry enjoyed
it
Larry sought out and took pleasure in
little girls and women being sexually
injured and violated because he liked it
and as I and so many other women and
little girls were being violated Larry
from sexual satisfaction in our
suffering as we were being sexually
violated even as very young children as
young as six years old Larry was
sexually aroused by our humiliation and
our pain he asked us how it felt because
he wanted to know what was done to
myself and these other women and little
girls and the fact that our sexual
violation was enjoyed by Larry Mathers
it demands justice and the sentence you
imposed today will send a message about
how much these precious women and
children are worth you have seen her
pictures your honor moments in time
captured when they were the young and
vulnerable and violated I think of the
young girl that I was and the little
girls and young women all of these
survivors weren't every day I feel like
I see them in the faces of my two
precious daughters when I watched my
daughter's eyes light up as they danced
to the Nutcracker I remember the little
girl that I and all of these women used
to be this far below their eyes must
have had as minded before their
innocence was taken
I watched my daughter's love and trust
unreservedly and I remember the long
road that it has been to let myself love
and be loved without fear I think of the
scars that still remain for all of us
one of the worst parts of this entire
process was knowing as I began to
realize what had happened to me how many
other little girls
had been left to strike - I was barely
15 when Larry began to abuse me and as I
lay on the table each time and tried to
reconcile what was happening with the
man larry was held out to be there were
three things I was very sure first it
was clear to me this was something
really did regularly second because this
was something Larry did regularly it was
impossible that at least some women and
girls had not described what was going
on - officials at MSU and US aging I was
confident of this and third I was
confident that because people at MSU and
USAG had to be aware of what Larry was
doing and had not stopped him there
could surely be no question about the
legitimacy of his treatment this must be
medical treatment the problem must be me
and because I had friends who were
physical therapists who actually
practice legitimate internal pelvic
floor techniques I also knew at 15 that
to practice this you must have
specialized training and certification
surely anyone who had heard that Larry
was penetrating little girls would have
demanded to know where he got his
training and if there was any question
he would have never been allowed near me
and so I lay still and on the first two
points I was right it was something he
did often and others had described
Larry's treatment before in fact though
I didn't know it at the time for girls
and women had described in detail to
three different athletic departments at
LSU what he was doing and his
penetration and their belief that they
had been sexually assaulted it was
reported to Kathy courageous MSC's had
gymnastics coach - a track coach and to
multiple athletic trainers and
supervisors years before I walked into
Larry's door but I was wrong in my third
belief I was wrong that surely if
someone had been made aware of what
Larry was doing they would report it and
ensure it was legitimate before ever
allowing
near another child I did not know when I
was 15 that in 1997 three years before I
walked into Larry's exam room that M s
use had gymnastics coach Cathy Kangas
had waived a report form in front of
larisa voice after being told by two
separate gymnasts of what Larry was
doing and told the Rissa there would be
consequences for her if she reported I
did not know that Tiffany Thomas Lopez
had reported the penetration and sexual
assault to athletic trainer Destiny's
teachin her hawk and two other athletic
trainers from supervisors two years
before I walked into Larry's door I did
not know that Christy Achenbach had
reported the penetration and sexual
assault to her track coach and her
athletic trainers and had also been
silenced a full year before I walked
into Larry's door I did not know that
Jennifer Bedford had also reported to
destiny teach in a hawk and asked if she
could file a report that Larry's
treatment made her feel uncomfortable
and that she had also been silenced
at 15 I believed that the adults at MSU
surrounding Larry would do the right
thing if they're aware of what Larry was
doing and I was terribly wrong and
discovering that I could not only trust
my abuser but I could not trust the
people surrounding him has been
devastating it is part of the
consequences of sexual assault and it
needs to be taken seriously I did not
know that at the same time Larry was
penetrating me USAG was systematically
varying reports of sexual assault
against member coaches in a file cabinet
instead of reporting them creating a
culture where predators like Larry and
so many others in the organization up to
the highest level coaches were able to
sexually abuse children including our
Olympians without any fear of being
caught I did not know that contrary to
my belief the elite gymnasts whose
pictures were plastered on Larry's wall
were far from protected that USAG rather
than super
Larry was allowing him to treat these
girls in their own beds without even
having a medical license in Texas I did
not have any of these things and so as
Larry was abusing me each time I assured
myself it must be fine because I thought
I could trust the adults around me my
misplaced trust in my physician and my
misplaced trust in the adults around me
who wielded like a weapon and it cost me
dearly and it follows me everywhere and
I would like to take a moment now to
address both organizations whose
failures led to my sexual assault
because it is part of the consequences
that I now carry you me thank you ms you
we have been telling our stories for
more than 18 months and you have yet to
answer a single question I have asked
every time I repeat these facts about
the number of women who reported to
employers that MSU and we're silent do
you respond the exact same way you issue
a press statement saying there was no
cover-up because no one who heard the
reports of assault believed that Larry
was committing abuse you play word games
saying you didn't know because no one
believed I know that and the reason
everyone who heard about Larry's abuse
did not believe it is because they did
not listen they did not listen in 1997
or 1998 or 1999 for 2004 2004 or 2014 no
one knew according to your definition of
know because no one handled the reports
of abuse properly victims were silenced
intimidated repeatedly told it was
medical treatment and even forced to go
back for continued sexual assault you
have stated in the motion to dismiss our
civil suit that ironically is being
heard right now in court as I am
speaking that the reports that were
given in 1997
98 99 and 2002 track coaches had
gymnastics coaches and athletic trainers
and supervisors don't quote count as
notice because these teenagers didn't
report it to the right official the 14
year old didn't go to the right person
you have stated that no reports of
sexual assault count as notice unless
that is reported to a person who is
capable of firing the alleged
perpetrator this entirely contradicts
the letter that president Simon sent all
11,000 MSU employees in 2012 reminding
them that MSU policy requires them to
report any suspected child abuse and any
allegations of sexual assault against
someone at MSU so MSU which is it dear
employees have a duty to protect
children or not it has been 18 months
and I am still asking the same questions
hoping that the little girls that come
after me will have adults that they can
trust and I'd be getting the same answer
for a year and so I am asking Point
Blank again when Kathy College is
humiliated larissa voice and the second
gymnasts greatly compounding the trauma
of their sexual assault and waved the
report form in front of her telling her
there would be consequences as she
reported is this the right way or the
wrong way to handle sexual assault
allegations on MSU campus when Tiffany
Thomas Loeb has reported her abuse to
athletic trainers and supervisors and
the trainer's use the emotional pain
Tiffany was in after her father's death
to convince her it would be too
exhausting and painful to bother filing
a report was it the right way or the
wrong way to handle a report of sexual
assault on MSU campus when Christie
Achenbach reported the sexual assault to
her track coach and athletic trainers I
was also silenced was it the right way
or the wrong way to handle a report a
sexual assault on MSU's campus when Kyle
Stephens parents reported Mary sexual
abuse of their daughter to an MSU site
high-interest and he brought Larian to
talk to her parents instead of reporting
as he was mandated to do by law was it
the right way or the wrong way to handle
a report of sexual assault on MSU campus
when Amanda Tommy Shaw recorded - the
title nine office and Larry was allowed
to hand pick the four colleagues to the
interview to determine whether his
treatment was legitimate was that the
right way or the wrong way to
investigate a claim of sexual assault on
MSC's campus and after all this what I
came forward in 2016
I brought an entire file of evidence
with me
I made a police report and a title 9
report and I brought with me - those
reports my medical records showing that
Larry had never charted penetrative
techniques I brought medical records
from a nurse practitioner documenting my
grafic disclosure of abuse - her way
back in 2004 I had my journals showing
the mental anguish I had been in since
the assault a catalogue of national and
international medical journal articles
showing what real pelvic floor treatment
looks like I brought a letter from a
neighboring district attorney vouching
for my character and truthfulness and
urging detectives to take my case
seriously
I brought a cover letter going point by
point through Michigan law and case law
explaining how every element of first
sugru criminal sexual assault was met
and could be proven I brought a witness
I had disclosed it - in 2004 I brought
evidence of two more women unconnected
to me who were also claiming sexual
assault and I had the names of three
pelvic floor experts willing to speak on
my behalf and the MSU PD handled it
beautifully but MSU officials were a
different story because the response of
Dean Williams trampled was to send an
email to Larry that day and tell him
quote good luck I am on your side
and when my video testimony to the indie
star came out graphically describing the
abuse that Larry perpetrated disclosing
horrific details to the world that no
one was ever supposed to know that I had
never told anyone even my own husband
until that point Dean strable forwarded
that video testimony to the MSU Provost
and he locked it he called it the cherry
on the cake of his day president Simon
and Board of Trustees is this the right
way to handle disclosures of abuse on
FSU's campus when Brooke lemon one of
the doctors Larry was allowed to hand
pick to clear himself in 2014 was
interviewed from my investigation she
said I hadn't really been penetrated I
only thought I had because quote when I
am a fifteen-year-old girl I think
everything between my legs is my vagina
I only thought Larry had put his fingers
in me for up to 40 minutes at a time for
a full year I was just confused sounds
eerily familiar to what Amanda Thomas
Shaw was told in 2014 that she quote
didn't understand the nuanced
differences between sexual assault and a
medical exam it sounds eerily familiar
to what every single woman was told all
the way back to 1997
we were all wrong we were all just
confused Board of Trustees is this the
right way to handle disclosures of
sexual assault on LSU's campus and if
that were not bad enough when I finally
joined the civil suit five months later
after waiting for almost half a year for
MSU to do the right thing the vice
president of the Board of Trustees Joel
Ferguson went on television and gave a
press interview in which he claimed
there's a vest who had filed civil suits
were ambulance chasers who were looking
for a payday in fact I know that at
least one other high-ranking
I see official has specifically called
me out by name and said I am in it for
the money
this has never been contradicted
retracted or refuted and MSU you need to
realize that you are greatly compounding
the damage done to these abuse victims
by the way you are responding this what
it took to get here what we had to go
through for our voices to be heard
because of the responses of the adults
in authority has greatly compounded that
damage we suffer and it matters we have
waited 18 months to be told no this is
not how to handle this on MSU campus but
instead everyone has doubled down on the
claim that nothing was done wrong and
the only conclusion that can be reached
is that no one truly sees anything wrong
with any of this and that is terrifying
and it leaves me terrified for the
little girls of the future who we are
here to protect and because of this
willful ignorance victim silencing and
mishandling of sexual assault reports
against Larry in 97 98 and 99 I walked
through Larry's door in 2000 and never
walked out the same not long after I
stopped seeing Larry I transitioned from
athlete to coach and every day that I
nurtured those baby gymnasts I wondered
if any of them would find their way into
his exam room when one of my little
girls was finally referred to him I took
a chance and I spoke up and I was kindly
cautioned for my own sake to remain
silent
my little baby gymnasts were sent to
Larry before I even knew a decision had
been made to do so her family moved away
almost immediately thereafter and I wept
for that little girl and I prayed to God
that she was under the age range that
Larry preferred she was 7 but when I
filed my police report crime Stevens
came forward she was 6 a year younger
and I cried in my kitchen and I don't
know yet if that little girl walked out
the saying that she walked in I
transitioned from coaching to working in
public policy and I fought there every
time I had to commute or work in close
quarters with my male colleagues I
dreaded working on current events or
legislation that involves sexual assault
because I knew the memories that would
come with it I still watched gymnastics
but I looked away whenever the camera
panned to the sidelines in case Larry
would be there I wondered almost daily
if there was any chance that my voice
would ever be hurt I began Law School
when I was 19 and I wrapped up in
blankets
every time I studied torts or crimes
related to sexual assault and I hoped my
face wouldn't betray me in classroom
discussions and I researched internal
pelvic floor procedures and I tried to
find out what had happened to me and I
watched for any sign that I would ever
be believed I met my future husband and
I told him what I never wanted to tell
anyone and I wondered if you would walk
away and he didn't but I couldn't even
hold his hand or look up at him because
closeness wasn't safe and Trust wasn't
safe we got married and my 25th birthday
came and went and I sat up 4 nights
before believing my ability to file a
police report would end on that birthday
I didn't know the statute of limitations
had been lifted I woke up the morning I
turned 25 and instead of being able to
feel joy at a milestone I felt only
hopelessness and grief because I thought
my chance to stop this man was over I
thought daily about all the little women
and girls walking in his office
and I wondered if it would ever ever end
I became a mother three times over and
the fear that hung over each birth
knowing I would be vulnerable in a
medical setting cast a horrific shadow
over what should have been an occasion
of pure joy
and I asked for a chance to be believed
and I waited I held my firstborn and
then my two daughters need time I did
Clary I remember the day you brought
so that I could hold her you knew how
much I loved children and you used your
own daughter to manipulate me and every
time I held my babies I prayed to God
you would leave your abuse in the exam
room and not take it home to the little
girl born with black hair just like her
daddy
and then the indie star story came out
about the rampant cover-up of sexual
abuse at USAG and I knew this was the
chance and I wrote them immediately but
because of one thing we did the cost to
making it end has been incredibly high
and the effects of Larry's abuse has
been redoubled in the effort that it
took to stop him choosing to live those
moments over and over daily releasing
every shred of privacy I had living with
the reality that I not only didn't get
to choose what you did but now I didn't
get to choose who knew about it even my
status as a sexual assault victim has
impacted or did impact my ability to
advocate for sexual assault victims
because once it became known that I too
had experienced sexual assault people
close to me used it as an excuse to
brush off my concerns when I advocated
for others who had been abused saying I
was just obsessed because of what I had
gone through that I was imposing my own
experience upon other institutions who
had massive failures and much worse my
advocacy for sexual assault victims
something I cherished cost me my church
and our closest friends three weeks
before I filed my police report I was
left alone and isolated and far worse
it was impacted because when I came out
my sexual assault was wielded like a
weapon against me often by those who
should have been the first to support
and help and I couldn't even do what I
loved best which was to reach out to
others I was subjected to lies and
attacks on my character including very
publicly by attorney Shannon Smith
testified under oath and was being
attacked for wanting fame and attention
for making up a story to try to get
money and Your Honor since these attacks
were made on my character very publicly
on public record I would like to take an
opportunity briefly now to correct them
you may proceed thank you out of the two
women in question that day Miss Smith
and I who were attempting to communicate
their either questions or answers I
would like to note that only one of us
was taking pictures of the courtroom on
her cell phone only one of us post for
the press and said quote I feel like I
should say cheese and out of the two of
us only one of us was making money off
her court appearance that day I don't
feel they need to say anything else I
think I communicated quickly we need
everybody to calm down counsel I've
heard you she's not going to say
anything else this is her time to speak
you are going to get your opportunity
and you can counter what you need to
we're going to sit down and you may
proceed ma'am thank you
the cost emotional and physical to see
this through has been greater than many
will ever know and Larry I don't need to
tell you what the cost of your abuse has
been to me because you got to read my
journals every word of them because
those had to go into evidence to make
this happen but I want you to understand
why I made this choice knowing full well
what it was going to cost to get here
and with very little hope of ever
succeeding I did it because it was right
no matter the cost it was right and the
farthest I can run from what you have
become is to daily choose what is right
instead of what I want you have become a
man ruled by selfish and perverted
desires a man defined by his daily
choices over and over again to feed that
selfishness and perversion you chose to
pursue your wickedness no matter what it
cost others and the opposite of what you
have done is for me to choose to love
sacrificially no matter what it costs me
in our early hearings you brought your
Bible into the courtroom and you have
spoken of praying for forgiveness and so
it is on that basis that I appeal to you
if you have read the Bible you carry you
know that the definition of sacrificial
love portrayed is of God himself loving
ster sacrificially that he gave up
everything to pay a penalty for the city
who did not commit by His grace I to to
soul of this way he spoke and trained
for forgiveness but Larry if you have
read the Bible you carry you know
forgiveness does not come from doing
good things as if good deeds can erase
what you have done
it comes from repentance which requires
facing and acknowledging the truth about
what you have done in all but it's utter
to
and horror without mitigation without
excuse
without acting as if good deeds can
erase what you have seen in this
courtroom today the Bible you carry says
it is better for a millstone to be
thrown around your neck and you thrown
into the lake then really to make even
one child stumble and you have damaged
hundreds the Bible used to being carries
on this final judgment where all of
God's wrath and his eternal terror is
poured out on men like you should you
ever reach the point of truly facing
what you have done the guilt will be
crushing and that is what makes the
gospel of Christ so sweet because it
extends grace and hope and mercy where
none should be found and it will be
there for you I pray you experience the
soul-crushing weight of guilt so that
you may someday experience true
repentance and true forgiveness from God
which you need far more than forgiveness
for me though I extend that to you as
well throughout this process I have
clung to a quote by CS Lewis where he
says my argument against God was that
the universe seemed so cruel and unjust
but how had I got this idea of unjust
and just a man does not call a line
pircuit unless he first has some idea of
straight what was i comparing the
universe to when I called it addressed
Larry I can call what you did evil and
wicked because it was and I know it was
evil and wicked because the straight one
exists there straight line is not
measured based on your perception or
anyone else's perception and this means
I can speak the truth about my abuse
without minimization or mitigation and I
can call it evil because I know what
goodness is and this is why I pity you
because when a person loses the ability
to define good and evil when they cannot
define evil they can no longer define
and enjoy what is truly good when a
person can harm
human being especially a child without
true guilt they have lost the ability to
truly love Larry you have shut yourself
off from every truly beautiful and good
thing in this world that could have and
should have brought you joy and
fulfillment and I pity you for it
you could have had everything you
pretended to be every woman who stood up
here truly loved you as an innocent
child real genuine love for you and it
did not satisfy I have experienced the
soul satisfying joy of a marriage built
on sacrificial love and safety and
tenderness and care I have experienced
to true intimacy in its deepest Joy's
and it is beautiful and sacred and
glorious and that is a joy you have cut
yourself off from ever experiencing and
I pity you for it I have been there for
young gymnasts and help them transform
from awkward little girls to graceful
beautiful confident athletes and take in
joy in their success because I wanted
what was best for them
and this is a joy you have cut yourself
off from forever because your desire to
help was nothing more than a facade for
your desire to harm
I have lived the deep satisfaction of
wrapping my small children up in my arms
and making them feel safe and secure
because I was safe and this is a rich
joy beyond what I can express and you
have kind of yourself off from it
because you were not safe that I pity
you for that in losing the ability to
call evil what it is without litigation
without minimization you have lost the
ability to define and enjoy love and
goodness you have fashioned for yourself
that is far far worse than any I could
ever put you in and I pity you for that
and this is also why in many ways your
honor the worst part of this process was
each name each number who came forward
to the police with each Jane Doe I saw
my little girls and the little girls
that were the little girls who walked
into Larry's office that I could not
save because no one wanted to listen and
while that is not my guilt it is pain I
still carry and pain I share with them I
cried for them and when every tear that
fell I wondered who is gonna find these
little girls who's gonna tell them how
much they are worth how valuable they
are how deserving of justice and
protection who is gonna tell these
little girls that what was done to them
matters that they are seen and valued
that they are not alone and they are not
unprotected and I could not do that but
we are here now and today that message
can be sent with the sentence you hand
down you can communicate to all these
little girls and to every predator to
every little girl or young woman who is
watching oh much a little girl it's
worth I am asking that when we leave
this corner when we leave knowing that
when Larry was sexually aroused and
gratified by our violation when he
enjoyed our suffering when he took
pleasure in our abuse that it was evil
and wrong I asked that you hand on a
sentence that tells us that what was
done to us matters that we are though we
are worth everything with the greatest
protection the law can offer the
greatest measure of justice available
and to everyone who is watching I asked
that same question how much is a little
girl worth Larry said in court that he
hoped education and learning what
happened from this tragedy and I share
that hope and this is what we
to learn look around the courtroom
remember what you have witnessed these
past seven days this is what it looks
like when someone chooses to put their
selfish desires above the safety and
love for those around them and let it be
a warning to us fall and moving forward
as a society this is what it looks like
when the adults in authority do not
respond properly to disclosures of
sexual assault
this is what it looks like when
institutions create a culture where a
predator can flourish unafraid and
unabated and this is what it looks like
when people in authority refuse to
listen put friendships in front of the
truth failed to create or enforce proper
policy and fail to hold enablers
accountable this is what it looks like
it looks like a courtroom full of
survivors who carried deep wounds women
and girls who have banded together to
fight for themselves because no one else
would do it women and girls who carry
scars that will never fully heal but who
have made the choice to place the guilt
and shame on the only person to whom it
belongs the abuser but may the whore
expressed in this courtroom over the
last seven days be motivation for anyone
and everyone no matter the context to
take responsibility if they have erred
in protecting a child to understand the
incredible failures that led to this
week and to do it better the next time
judge oculina I plead with you as you
deliberate the sentence to give Larry
send a message that these victims are
worth everything in order to meet both
the goals of this Court I plead with you
to impose the maximum sentence under
the agreement because everything is what
these survivors are worth thank you
thank you